#summary How to use the framework in your project.
#labels Featured

=Introduction=
Version 0.5.0 introduced support for JPA, which allows (in theory) for use of any JPA provider, not just Hibernate (ex: Hibernate Entity Manager, OpenJPA, TopLink). Here we lay out the different installation options.

The documentation for the old version (0.4.3) is still available at [InstallationAndConfiguration0x4x3].

=Installation=
==Maven==
For projects that use Maven for dependency management, we have a repository. Reference it in your POM as follows:
{{{
<repository>
	<id>sonatype-oss-repo</id>
	<name>Sonatype Open Source maven staging repo</name>
	<url>https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/</url>
</repository>
}}}

If you want to use standard hibernate without JPA, include the following dependency...
{{{
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.googlecode.genericdao</groupId>
	<artifactId>dao-hibernate</artifactId>
	<version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
}}}

If you want to use JPA with the Hibernate JPA implementation, include these dependencies instead...
{{{
<!-- This first dependency includes all the JPA implementations for the DAOs -->
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.googlecode.genericdao</groupId>
	<artifactId>dao</artifactId>
	<version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
<!-- This second one includes the Hibernate Entity Manager plugin for the framework -->
<dependency>
	<groupId>com.googlecode.genericdao</groupId>
	<artifactId>search-jpa-hibernate</artifactId>
	<version>1.0.0</version>
</dependency>
}}}

==Other==
*WARNING:* _The information below is currently (as of 26 Feb, 2011) in the process of being revised for the 1.0.0 version. The information below is inconsistent. Please check back in a couple of days.

Download the jars from https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/

The DAO requires both the _search_ jar and the _dao_ jar.

https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/dao/0.5.1/trg-dao-0.5.1.jar <br/>
https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/search/0.5.1/trg-search-0.5.1.jar

If you are using standard Hibernate without JPA, you will also need the _trg-search-hibernate_ and _trg-dao-hibernate_ jars.

https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/dao-hibernate/0.5.1/trg-dao-hibernate-0.5.1.jar <br/>
https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/search-hibernate/0.5.1/trg-search-hibernate-0.5.1.jar

If you are using JPA with Hibernate Entity Manager, download just the _search-jpa-hibernate_ jar instead.

https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/search-jpa-hibernate/0.5.1/trg-search-jpa-hibernate-0.5.1.jar

If you like, you can also get the source jars to help out your IDE with Javadocs and to help yourself out being able to see what's going on (trg-XXX-X.X.X-sources.jar).

https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/dao/0.5.1/trg-dao-0.5.1-sources.jar <br/>
https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/search/0.5.1/trg-search-0.5.1-sources.jar

https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/dao-hibernate/0.5.1/trg-dao-hibernate-0.5.1-sources.jar <br/>
https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/search-hibernate/0.5.1/trg-search-hibernate-0.5.1-sources.jar

https://oss.sonatype.org/content/groups/public/com/googlecode/genericdao/search-jpa-hibernate/0.5.1/trg-search-jpa-hibernate-0.5.1-sources.jar

You will also need the Hibernate 3.3 jars and their dependencies. I'll leave you to do all the hibernate configuration.

The project has one other dependency. That is Simple Logging Facade for Java (SLF4J). I think Hibernate 3.3 also requires this to be configured.

----
===Installing only the Search without the DAOs===
For the first case, use this dependency instead:
{{{
<dependency>
        <groupId>com.trg</groupId>
        <artifactId>trg-search-hibernate</artifactId>
        <version>0.5.1</version> <!-- or whatever the latest version is -->
</dependency>
}}}

For the second you only need:
{{{
<dependency>
        <groupId>com.trg</groupId>
        <artifactId>trg-search-jpa-hibernate</artifactId>
        <version>0.5.1</version> <!-- or whatever the latest version is -->
</dependency>
}}}

If not using Maven, simply don't download the _dao..._ jars. Only get the _search..._ ones.
----

=Configuration=
The Hibernate Generic DAO library is designed not to mandate any configuration. It's just a collection of POJOs that you can decide how to best to use. However, there are some things that the API requires in order to work.

===Generic DAOs===
The Generic DAO classes will not work unless they are sub-classed with specific generic types. The idea of a generic DAO is to be a DAO for a specific domain object. The way to specify which domain object is to create a sub-class of GenericDAO that has the generic types of the domain object and its identifier. See [GenericDAOExamples] for examples.

===Standard Hibernate: Session and SessionFactory===
Each DAO and the SearchFacade needs both a Session and a SessionFactory in order to work. By default they expose a public `setSessionFactory()` method and use `SessionFactory.getCurrentSession()` to get a Session whenever they need it. With this configuration the SessionFactory is required and is generally set once when the object is initialized.

So if using `getCurrentSession()` is what you want, all you have to do is make sure that each DAO has its SessionFactory set before it is used. If you need to do things differently, look at the "Hibernate session strategy" section in the "Details and Tips" on the UserGuide.

To see an example project configuration using Spring auto-wiring, have a look at the web project in SVN at /trunk/sample/hibernate-maven-web.

===JPA using Hibernate Entity Manager===
This configuration is somewhat more difficult because of ability to use different JPA providers.

Each *DAO* requires a JPASearchProcessor and an EntityManager. Generally, a single Search Processor will be associated with an instance of a DAO for the lifetime of the instance, while a new "current" EntityManager will be injected as needed. Make sure that any EntityManager that is used is associated with the same persistence unit (i.e. EntityManagerFactory) as the SearchProcessor.

The *JPASearchProcessor* is designed to be used as a singleton. The constructor requires a MetadataUtil instance. A JPASearchProcessor can only be used with EntityManagers that are associated with the same persistence unit as that MetadataUtil. If an application has multiple persistence units, it will need to have multiple corresponding Search Processors.

*MetadataUtil* is the layer of abstraction that allows the framework to work (in theory) with a variety of JPA providers. In order to use a particular JPA provider, an implementation of MetadataUtil must be provided. Currently the framework only has an implementation for Hibernate.

In theory, different implementations of MetadataUtil will require different configurations. The Hibernate implementation is *`com.trg.search.hibernate.HibernateMetadataUtil`*. You will need one instance per persistence unit (i.e. EntityManagerFactory). Use `com.trg.search.jpa.hibernate.HibernateMetadataUtil.getInstanceForEntityManagerFactory(HibernateEntityManagerFactory)` to get these instances.

To see an example project configuration using Spring auto-wiring, have a look at the project in SVN at /tags/0.5.1/sample/jpa-hibernate-maven.

*JPASearchFacade* is configured in basically the same way as the DAOs.